## Health and Life Style

I find that maintaining a healthy life style is an important part of my identity. Without good health, I would find it difficult to pursue the activities I do today. As a result, I have a fairly high bar for good health in the areas of physical health, diet and mental health.

Generally with physical health, I try to conduct a variety of different physical activities encompassing strength, flexibility and cardio to maintain a well balanced physique. As a result, I do all kinds of activities that may range from dancing, sports or weight lifting. I've been more rigorous in developing mastery in a few activities such as running, bboying and tennis. Furthermore, I find having a consistent sleep schedule to be critical in maintaining my physical health. There are all kinds of benefits of having good sleep and as a result I aim to sleep from 10pm-6am daily. I'm personally more of a morning person, but I would imagine that just maintaining a regular schedule with sufficient hours would be great for anyone's health.

Diet is probably the most important aspect of maintaining my health and I cook almost all of my meals with fresh produce. I keep a fairly strict diet of eating whole foods or foods with little to no added sugars. Though I do have a cheat day, where I may have some fast food, which definitely helps in terms of maintaining the diet. Overall, I do not consume any "empty calories" that one may get from beverages or processed grains. I am very committed to eating nutritious foods by prioritizing vegetables in every meal. I would consider carbohydrates and protein to be secondary considerations and neither should have a larger portion size than vegetables. Furthermore, I would limit carbohydrates to whole grains such as brown rice, oatmeal and whole grain noodles. With protein, I generally avoid or eat small portions of red meats. Instead, I aim to have fish, chicken or plant based proteins.

I find mental health to be one of the more challenging health challenges. I find the best way to approach this comes down to maintaining meaningful relationships and limiting consumption of media. Building relationships is vital having good health in just having a group of support and keep you in check. It's especially important to focus on being with people who encourage you to be a better person so you can be proud of your identity. There are also some unexpected benefits from having more people you love because the number of people you love has a strong correlation with your lifespan. Otherwise, to develop yourself personally, I find that limiting media consumption to be an important step. There is just an ocean of media that is readily available, which can consume your thoughts and perspective of your own identity. I find myself to be better when I take the time to consider my own identity and surrounding life instead of others or global news. While being aware of your peers and the global news can be helpful at times, I would say that being aware of yourself and your surroundings will always be useful and would never go out of style.

Overall, I am very committed to maintaining my personal health physically and mentally. I try to have a deep understanding of how to have good health, so that I may maintain a high bar for executing healthy decisions.