## Creativity

What does creativity mean to me?

Creativity fuels progress! Without it, the world would wither all the way back past the stone age to what came before! Without creativity, I would now be a grandfather bearing a son and daughter, each bearing their own son and daughter. Alas, I am not that grandpa, but a young man with an ever changing image of who I hope to be in the future. With limited resources, I had to find the best way to utilize what I had to make films that I could proud of. I am always looking for ways to really showcase myself in my work. To me, creativity is about taking all the resources at my disposal to bring the world together, even if it's a small part, to call mine.

To begin, creativity was a path forward in bringing my imagination into life. I was a fairly rebellious child growing up and I definitely did not want to do, without a doubt, whatever my parents were yapping away at me to do. Naturally, they were not very supportive of my interest in film making. So without any resources of my own, I really embraced the words of Casey Neistat, a notable YouTube creator, that getting started in filmmaking is really everyone's grasp because all you need to do is whip out your phone and start recording. I did just that and really utilized every part of my phone to get the best shot that I could. Starting with a budget of zero, I pretty much used what was available to make some nice phone stands, one for horizontal and one for vertical shots with paper and duct tape. They were great as camera stands, later I made them even better by cutting out some of the paper, which was blocking the screen, and taped over the gap with translucent tape. I was constantly looking for ways to improve my set up, especially on the editing side. I was limited to using free software and started off with windows movie maker and rotated between available free editors. Ultimately, I settled with the unusual choice of Blender for editing video. If you're not familiar with Blender, it's a nice piece of open source software for modeling and animation, which have all the necessary elements for editing film! Obviously, it had many shortcomings in terms of its ease of use since it was not built to edit film, but after familiarizing myself with blender, it was an absolutely incredible tool! I could color correct, super impose video, create translucent film, zoom in, zoom out, stich together gradient overlays, move the sound around, and anything that I could imagine! Ultimately, this was far more rewarding than purchasing a license for professional software or equipment and was very proud of the quality of film I was producing.

To create great projects, I believe that it's important to add a personal flair. I do not think it is enough to do well or just be unique, it is important for me to do both. Often times, I would make little changes that ultimately have a noticeable impact on how your work is perceived. For instance in reciting the following poem:

Roses are red,  
Violets are blue,  
Can't you see that,  
I miss you!

I can just imagine the sing song rhythm of all "roses are red" poems, which is good enough. But boring! By putting pauses in different parts of the poem, I was able to change the mood in it's recital.

Roses, are red,  
Violets, are blue,  
Can't you see,  
that I miss you!

This recital has a heavier mood that the previous, despite having the same exact words. I just loved to mix and match different experiences together in grand experimentation to see what can be created!

Before one such experimentation, I looked to the many categories of film on YouTube, and I was a big fan of a fair number of them. I was really quite curious to why many of them really stuck to one category and rarely ventured in style. As a viewer, I enjoyed all of these categories and wondered: what if you brought all these different elements into a single film? Creating this took a longer development process, which involved much criticism from my viewers. At its core, the films I were making were lets plays, which incorporated popular vlogging elements, and many gamers were not interested any of them! They wanted cleanly cut gameplay with commentary. However, I had a vision of what I wanted to create, which was difficult to follow since those kinds of films generally did not exist. While perfecting the process of producing the videos, I found myself really engaged with the films I was making even through the first cuts. It was really nice to start a montage with music to bring you in, cuttint to the creator roaming around talking about games, then diving into the gameplay with highlighted great plays and reactions, transitioning between games with time lapses and finally cutting back to the creator roaming around while concluding the video. It looked like a lot of viewers were engaged with this style of video as well and gave a lot of feedback in appreciating the unique elements into their regular lets play video. Most of all, I was really proud of creating these films which were enjoyed by others because it showed that I had made somewhat of an impact on the audience through producing great unique films.

Popular or not, my work is very much infused with my creativity. I find creativity to be meaningful to me in two ways. First, it enables me to utilize existing resources to it's greatest potential to overcome obstacles in completing my goals. Next, it's a way to set your stake in the world in a way to make it yours. As a result, I believe that creativity is an integral part of who I am in the hopes to bring the world forward, in part, by me.
