## Diversity

I find diversity to be a crucial part of my life. As a second generation immigrant, I find myself at the intersection of an immigrant and natural born American. Furthermore, I am an ally for minorities against inequality and believe that there has been an unquantifiable number of innovations that have been lost in the suppression of minorities. I find that there is incredible value in raising minorities which may require some necessary sacrifice from the majority.

To start off with, minorities can be incredibly important in providing the necessary insights for an organization's success. Quite frankly, there is only so much that can be gained from a group with the same background. There is a famous example with the Gillette company in it's attempt to produce razors for the Indian market. In its first attempt, they had not considered that there was very little availability of running water in India. This was not a concern in the existing markets, but was a major short sight which could have had been easily avoided if there was one person with prior knowledge of this. Many such insights can be lost and little value can be provided from working in a group of similar persons. Following the failed release, Gillette rebuilt the team with a diverse group to tackle the Indian razor to great success. A diverse group can more easily find the best approach through providing unique insights.

Furthermore, different cultures may interpret the same material as different messages. With an understanding of both American and Chinese culture, I find it incredibly important to communicate differently to convey the same message across different communities. This can develop unintended consequences if not done precisely because the differences may not be obvious. For instance, when viewing market movements in the New York Stock Exchange, I would expect green prices to indicate that the stock price has risen while red would indicate that the price has dropped. However, in Chinese markets, you would expect the opposite. In Chinese culture, red is the color of good fortune and prosperity, which would indicate that a company is doing well. These cultural differences can be critical for clear communication to different communities.

As a fun fact, mandarin readers generally remember characters, which are mandarin words, as pictures in their mind because mandarin is pictorial in nature. While this would make recognizing new words difficult, it could provide longer character retention, since images are easier to remember than that of phonetic words.

Continuing the discussion on minorities, I believe that inequality surrounding minorities hinders progress. There can be no way to quantify what was lost as a result of such inequality, but it is simple to recognize that minorities face unique challenges, which, in turn, makes their growth challenging. While we recognize women to be a large and growing group in the work force, we have not changed our perception of their responsibility in the household. On average, women in dual income households do 65% of the chores. This can be crippling to an individual’s growth if they are taking on twice the responsibility outside of their day job. We should see a better division of chores between spouses and more women take greater responsibility in their professional careers. We already see greater success for women in education, where more women are graduating from universities than men and make up 70% of valedictorians. These are signs of great potential that cannot be realized without removing our bias surrounding the role of women at home.

This suppression is clear in how new fields may develop extraordinary bias. In technology, my own industry, programmers were initially predominantly women because it was not believed to be an important role. Some of our early innovations have come as a result of the work of women such as Ada Lovelace and Grace Hopper. Despite these champions of women in technology, we find that tech workers today are mostly men, who make up around 75% of computing jobs. It is clear today that the environment has a disproportional negative impact on women. Today, the turnover rate for women is twice that of men, and we see that leadership in tech companies are disproportionally male dominated compared to the field as a whole. This flip appears to come as result of recognizing that programmers play an important role in developing technology, and as a result, employers were less willing to hire women despite their experience and contributions so far. 

I would bet that great potential would be unlocked by investing more wealth and giving more authority to minorities. At worst, this could be realized through localization by developing better products for specific customers, and at its best, we could see new markets open through innovations that may not have succeeded with existing markets. This would definitely come at some cost to majority stakeholders. In some sense, unlocking minorities open new competitors and a loss of wealth and authority but would be a strong investment in the long run. Afterall, these changes will happen eventually one way or another and those who embrace the change would likely be the winners even if it comes at the cost of a short loss initially.

Being an ally to minorities is the first step in the right direction. I personally find being an ally can be uncomfortable at times, since the expectations of an ally are not always clear when attending diversity events. Afterall, there is actually very little that is unique about minority gatherings outside of the participation of minorities. From the perspective of a minority member, I want to be recognized as another impactful part of the system. As an ally, I find that supporting minorities by participating in diversity events can be very impactful because it shows recognition of inequality and willingness to learn more about the unique challenges of minorities. Furthermore, I believe being an ally is a good way to bring more diversity into your own life by being a unique experience in itself.

Minorities can be a critical part of any organization's success due to the enormous value of unique experiences. Some organizations are just beginning to realize the importance of minorities while others continue to suppress their growth. I believe that as a whole, much is lost in this suppression and future success could be defined solely on how we utilize the value of minorities in an increasingly global marketplace. There is an initial investment needed to realize this success. However, as we continue to develop our organizations globally, diverse teams will be critical for success.

